27)What is the purpose of the finally block in exception handling in C#?
(1 Point)

To execute code only if an exception is thrown.

To execute code only if no exception is thrown.

To execute code regardless of whether an exception is thrown or not. ----------------->Correct Ans

To re-throw the caught exception.


26) Which of the following correctly describes the use of ref and out keywords in C#?
(1 Point)

Both ref and out are used to pass arguments by reference, but out requires that the parameter be initialised before being passed.

Both ref and out are used to pass arguments by reference, but ref requires that the parameter be initialised before being passed. ----------------->Correct Ans

ref is used to pass arguments by reference, and out is used to pass arguments by value.

ref is used to pass arguments by value, and out is used to pass arguments by reference.


25) What is the purpose of the params keyword in C#?
(1 Point)

To pass a fixed number of arguments to a method.

To pass an unknown number of arguments to a method. ----------------->Correct Ans

To pass a single argument to a method.

To pass arguments by reference.



24) What does the yield keyword do in C#?
(1 Point)

It stops the execution of a method.

It returns multiple values from a method.

It allows a method to return an IEnumerable one item at a time. ----------------->Correct Ans

It converts a method into a lambda expression.


23) Which of the following statements is true about delegates in C#?
(1 Point)

Delegates are a type-safe way of calling methods. ----------------->Correct Ans

Delegates can only point to static methods.

Delegates are used for memory management.

Delegates cannot be multicast.



22) What does the StringBuilder class provide that the String class does not?
(1 Point)

Immutable string manipulation.

Better performance for multiple string modifications. ----------------->Correct Ans

Regular expression capabilities.

Enhanced string comparison methods.


21) What is the difference between == and .Equals() method in C#?
(1 Point)

== compares reference equality, while .Equals() compares value equality ----------------->Correct Ans

== compares value equality, while .Equals() compares reference equality

== is used for comparing strings, while .Equals() is used for comparing integers

== is used for assignment, while .Equals() is used for comparison



20) Explain the concept of covariance and contravariance in C#
(1 Point)

Covariance and contravariance are used for defining asynchronous and synchronous operations in C#.

Covariance allows you to assign a variable of a more specific type to a variable of a more general type, while contravariance allows you to assign a variable of a more general type to a variable of a more specific type.----------------->Correct Ans

Covariance allows returning a more specific type from a method than declared in the method signature and contravariance allows a method to return a more generic type than declared in the method signature.

Covariance refers to the ability to cast from a base type to a derived type and contravariance is the ability to cast a derived type to a specific type.



19) What does the following code snippet demonstrate in terms of C# language features?  Note image irukku 
(1 Point)


Extension methods

Generic constraints

Covariance

Contravariance



18) What is the purpose of the unsafe keyword in C#?
(1 Point)

The unsafe keyword is used to allow the use of pointers and direct memory manipulation in C#, providing low-level control over memory allocation and performance optimisations  ----------------->Correct Ans

The unsafe keyword is used for asynchronous operations in C#.

The unsafe keyword is used for defining multiple signatures of methods in C#

The unsafe keyword is used for defining access modifiers in C#



17) What is the output of this program? note image irukku
(1 Point)



4 5 6

3 4 5

3 4 5 6 

2 3 4 5 6



16) What is the output of this program? image irukku
(1 Point)


"Method Completed" followed by "First Task Started" and "Second Task Started"

"First Task Started" followed by "Second Task Started" and then "Method Completed"

"Method Completed"

"First Task Started" followed by "Method Completed" and then "Second Task Started"



15) Which new feature in C# 8.0 allows you to declare methods with optional implementations in interfaces?
(1 Point)

Default Interface Methods ----------------->Correct Ans

Abstract Methods

Extension Methods

Static Methods in Interfaces


14) What is the purpose of nullable reference types introduced in C# 8.0?
(1 Point)

To remove the need for null checks in code.

To provide a compile-time check to help avoid null reference exceptions.----------------->Correct Ans

To enable reference types to be null by default.

To allow value types to be null.

13) What is the purpose of the using declaration in C# 8.0?
(1 Point)

To declare a namespace import.

To ensure a resource is disposed only when explicitly called.

To specify a disposable resource in a shorter syntax without braces. ----------------->Correct Ans

To create a global alias for a namespace.


12) Which of the following patterns was introduced in C# 8.0 to enhance pattern matching?
(1 Point)

Type Patterns

Property Patterns

Tuple Patterns

All of the above ----------------->Correct Ans

11) What is the new feature in C# 8.0 that allows asynchronous streams to be processed with await?
(1 Point)

Async Streams ----------------->Correct Ans

Async Lambdas

Async Methods

Async Enumerables




10) Which of the following principles is not part of the SOLID principles of OOP?
(1 Point)

Single Responsibility Principle

Open/Closed Principle

Liskov Substitution Principle

Principle of Least Privilege ----------------->Correct Ans



9) Which of the following best describes the Dependency Inversion Principle?
(1 Point)

High-level modules should depend on low-level modules.

Low-level modules should depend on high-level modules.

Both high-level and low-level modules should depend on abstractions. ----------------->Correct Ans

Abstractions should depend on details.



8) What is the primary purpose of a primary key in a SQL table?
(1 Point)

To allow duplicate values in a table.

To create a relationship between two tables.

To uniquely identify each row in a table.----------------->Correct Ans

To store large text data.



7) Which of the following is a valid way to create a foreign key in SQL Server?
(1 Point)

FOREIGN KEY (ColumnName) REFERENCES OtherTable(OtherColumn)  ----------------->Correct Ans

CREATE FOREIGN KEY ON ColumnName

ADD FOREIGN KEY TO ColumnName

FOREIGN KEY REFERENCES OtherTable



6) Which of the following best describes the concept of "Infrastructure as Code" (IaC)?
(1 Point)

Utilising serverless computing services

Automating the deployment of applications

Manually configuring servers and network devices

Using high-level programming languages to manage and provision infrastructure ----------------->Correct Ans


5) Which of the following best describes serverless computing?
(1 Point)

Hosting applications that automatically scale based on demand without managing the underlying infrastructure----------------->Correct Ans

Running applications on physical servers without virtualisation

Using dedicated servers for each application

Implementing manual server configurations for high availability


4) What is the main advantage of using a NoSQL database over a traditional relational database?
(1 Point)

Strong schema enforcement

Improved data integrity constraints

Better support for complex transactions

Horizontal scalability ----------------->Correct Ans


3) What is the main advantage of denormalisation in NoSQL databases?
(1 Point)

Enables complex joins between tables

Reduces redundancy and improves data integrity

Simplifies data querying and improves read performance----------------->Correct Ans

Ensures strong consistency across distributed clusters

2) What are the key principles of DevOps?
(1 Point)

Waterfall Model, Iterative Development, and Spiral Model.

Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment, and Continuous Monitoring.----------------->Correct Ans

Agile Development, Scrum, and Kanban.

Version Control, Bug Tracking, and Code Review.


1) What is the role of Continuous Monitoring in DevOps practices?
(1 Point)

Monitoring user activity on the application.

Monitoring network traffic patterns.

Monitoring server hardware utilisation.

Monitoring application performance, logs, and metrics in real-time.----------------->Correct Ans